this is the great rhubari sand see in
the heart of the Sahara these swallows
have traveled one and a half thousand
miles since they left Nigeria their
superb powers of navigation will
eventually guide them to Europe but now
they and other thirsty migrants need to
find a speck of blue amidst this ocean
of sand and here it is
mell MA
here to ancient groundwater wells up to
the surface
but the birds need to be careful for the
Suns has played a terrible trick
this Oasis is poisonous
intense evaporation over thousands of
years has left the water saltier than
the sea as if to underline the horror
the place is infested by vast swarms of
flies
but this plague is a bird salvation the
Flies are filled with fresh water
filtered from the brine
so like a desert wanderer squeezing a
drink from a cactus the birds get all
the water they need from the fly's
bodies
more and more migrants join in wagtails
this is the birds only stopover he gives
them enough fuel to escape from the
Sahara and Africa